---
layout: post
title: "Gaming on GNU/Linux"
date: 2016-06-03 21:35:19
tags:
 - linux
 - philosophy
categories: software games
---


I've begun to once again feel a strong devotion to running things in
the OS I support the most, as opposed to where it might be more
convenient.

I use GNU/Linux (specifically Slackware) almost exclusively for all of
my work. It is fast, easy, and lets me do what I want to do without
getting in my way too much. If I need something, it is easy to obtain,
and it *DOESN'T* cost an arm and a leg just to get off the ground. 

I could go on and on about why I prefer using Linux and Slack, but
that's not the point of this post, so I'll leave it as written.
<!-- more -->
What I've started doing, especially with the events of the last few
years, is gradually move my gaming sphere into GNU/Linux. Steam has
helped with this greatly, with its official support and third-party
pull. But even before then, a lot of the games (well, the PC-based
games, anyway) I played had GNU/Linux support. But, even so, I would
often find myself installing it on my Windows partition.

See, a good amount of games I like to play (Like Visual Novels,
Imports in General, and the big, AAA titles my friends like to play)
**require** Windows. So, naturally, I have a partition or two that I
use exclusively to play them. And, well, if we already have an OS
install we're using for video games, we might as well install the
other games there too, right? Simply for expediency's sake?

Well, while that *does* work, recently I was excited to notice just
how much *better* support has gotten for GNU/Linux in gaming. Of the
nearly 400 titles I own on Steam (394), nearly 200 of them (177) have
a SteamOS/Linux version. And in the market sphere of things, most
Humble Bundle / Indiegala bundles have at least a representative
collection of games which support that platform. It's become *much*
easier for a gamer who prefers the penguin to play primarily on their
platform of choice.

So, what I've decided to do is write about my experiences with certain
GNU/Linux-friendly games on this blog from time to time. On the docket
are free games that've had versions for ages like Katawa Shoujo,
OpenTTD, and Dwarf Fortress... alongside newer games like Bionic Dues,
Dreamfall: Chapters, Shadowrun: Dragonfall, and (Hopefully!!!)
Undertale.

What I won't be talking about in this series (though I might *outside*
of this series): Emulators (because they make it possible to run
*unsupported* programs), WINE (separate from the former because of its
namesake), Virtualization (because that's not actually native), and
Browser Games (because they, by nature, work on the *browser*, not the
OS). Those exclusions should help me stay focused on games that
actually run on GNU/Linux, and therefore build a larger body of
software I can confirm has full support.

Do You play any games on GNU/Linux? What are some of the more notable
ones (whether because they are good and work really well, or because
they are hard to get working out of the box)? What's Your
distro-of-choice for Gaming? Let's discuss it below.

