---
layout: post
title: The Impo(r)tance of Your Voice
date: 2016-11-10 12:49:36
categories:
 - life
tags:
 - political
 - rights
 - opinion
---

Due to my somewhat radical beliefs on certain subjects, as well as my
general dissatisfaction with the current political climate in the
United States, I tend not to make many posts of an overly political
nature.

However, I want to take this time to publicly state that I am more
than willing to discuss how important it is for each and every citizen
to exercise all of their rights, including their right to vote.

{% raw %}
<!-- more -->
{% endraw %}
I look around at my peers and see a lot of dissatisfaction, a lot of
disenfranchisement. A lot of that apparently uniquely millennial
feeling that things are already a mess and there is little or nothing
we can do about it. I understand that more than many, believe me.

Feeling powerless in such a large country is awful. It is very easy to
conclude nothing You do will matter, and whether or not You eventually
change Your opinion about that I will assure You that You'll be told
that through results again and again and again.

However, around 44% of reported eligible voters
([source](http://www.electproject.org/2016g)) chose to abstain from
this Tuesday's election. This Tuesday's election, in which I
personally was asked to voice my opinion on the future president, my
future senator, my future congressmen (2 of them), my future school
board, and two separate questions regarding matters of my state, New
Jersey.

The idea that nearly half of those around me afforded a voice, however
small a voice it might be, chose to stay silent that night is a much
more troubling fact than a fixed primary, or the number of nominees
running unopposed (there were a few). I won't make this a very
persuasive piece, because I've already written it to simply state my
opinion, but I will end it with this:

**I will be more than happy to convince You to vote in any election
going forward.**

And I will be more than happy to argue, as long as is needed to
convince You, that Your voice mattersâ€”unless You choose to silence it
Yourself.
